we are here at the AL magazi camp in
central Gaza this area has been
transformed to a landfill you can see
smoke columns billowing all over the
place as a result of the citizens
burning trash to keep it from piling up
further we have dozens of tons of trash
that are being burned here which is
causing a significant Health crisis in
the surrounding areas we are talking
about health issues illnesses and inss
that are spreading as a result of this
scene that you can see here recently
municipality Crews dumped soil on the
trash in order to make room for
additional quantities of waste bigest
there are no landfills for the waste
that is being generated by displaced
people we will now talk to the head of
Al magazi municipality Mr Muhammed
mosle since the beginning of the war on
the Gaza Strip garbage has been diverted
from the licensed landfill managed by
the Gaza municipality to this dump that
you can see behind me the Alm magazi
municipality and the United Nations
relief and works agency started
diverting all waste from the camp to
this area because it is somewhat far
from the population and located in the
westernmost corner of the region it is
also a large area and the municipality
is dumping approximately 25 tons of
waste here every day occupation forces
prevented all our vehicles and all
vehicles operated by municipalities in
the central Gaza Strip from reaching the
main landfill in order to dump all this
waste unfortunately the presence of this
garbage here constitutes an ecological
disaster and causes very harmful effects
to human health and the
environment what is interesting is that
you told me earlier that the area here
was uninhabited however we can dozens of
homes that are uninhabited by citizens
as well as tents used by displaced
people landfills should be located in
the eastern part of Gaza in larger areas
that are located farther away from the
population so even if a fire breaks out
in the landfill the smoke would not
affect anybody however like I said
accessing those other landfills requires
coordination and occupation forces are
not allowing municipality vehicles to
access the those
areas Mr Abu anas you are a resident of
the area how are you living with this
Health
crisis this is my house there as you can
see it sits across from the landfill we
have been suffering from this dump since
the beginning of the war all the waste
that's coming from the magazi camp is
dumped here it's a health Calamity there
are mosquitoes there's insects there's
flies and I'm talking about huge numbers
that we simply cannot put up with there
are displace people living in my house
and in the surrounding homes as well we
cannot sleep be it during the day or
during the night and our suffering is
massive there are lots of mosquitoes and
they are very annoying not just to me
but everybody here is annoyed by the
mosquitoes mosquitoes are the worst and
at night it is
unbelievable the situation is dire we
have a real Health Calamity on our hands
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer